lampworking we're working glass in the
torch is a an art form that goes back
for 500 years
I was a sculptor for so long 20 years
and showing in Portland and up and down
the coast and after I met Henry and
found love for what he was doing in
glass my school there needs to be a
larger palette and could we do this if
you're not able to explore the chemistry
and develop it couldn't we do this he
said oh no you don't want to add
employees you don't want to have a
business and I said oh how hard could it
be and it took about a year and a half
to develop a business plan that was
successful and to raise the money to
start to begin a start-up was complex
and difficult and we did that and so we
began and we moved in in December 1999
the goal has always been to provide good
jobs to be as accountable to our
environment as we possibly can be we use
a lot of chemicals so to be as green as
we could and have work with the artists
to really promote an entirely new art
form and glass Jodi and Thomas are my
stepchildren and they would come up in
the summertime and work in the factory
and enjoyed the glass and do odd jobs
wide was talking with Thomas about
you've got to develop these manuals
we've got to get them really
strategically done with the job hazard
analysis and put them together in a
healthy way that when we sell the
business it's worth more and it's an
easy transition and we won't have to
come back to it that's the story we're
back by the shipping area and yeah we're
talking and that came up like when we
sell that was the first time i heard
that brought up and so I said waves act
like I'm not doing all this stuff you
guys are just going to sell the place it
goes like a
so then I made it very obvious and said
i would like to very much be a part of
glass alchemist future when Thomas got
involved I started hearing a lot more
and I really did see the opportunity to
grow an industry I saw that community
impact so to be able to come into glass
alchemy and kind of work from the ground
up and to help grow the business to help
explain to the community what glass out
and he's all about I just thought just
great potential to be able to join the
family business both from working with
so much better to work for your family
than it is for a large corporation it's
a very different experience and it's
something you get to help guide your own
future for them to come into the
business of streaming a lot of ways I
was overwhelmed I'd worked really hard
to bring the kids into our world and
being the outsider being a stepmom it
was a huge it was like I did one right
you know it really was a sign that the
blended family was working part of our
involvement in the glass community is
why the manufacturer we get a lot of
requests for donations and one thing to
be having place is that our donation
policies will donate glass to an event a
lot of people do flame off switch is
where people get on the torch and they
have competitions and they make pieces
and one of our requirements is that the
event if it's going to be a flame off
and you know is there an admission fee
or the piece is going to be auctioned
off what we'd like to see the proceeds
go to a local charity so that we can
help people go back to their local
communities so I think that's been
really received very well people are
excited that we are willing to donate
and we're seeing more and more people
have events that benefit something in
their own community
when I heard we had won the award I was
in tears literally um working with Henry
has been the most remarkable growth
experience in my life and the two of us
building this together and working
together living together and bringing
two families together has been the
greatest adventure and journey I could
ever imagine when we found out that we
had won this award I have to say that
was profoundly affected it was wow
really was all I had to say that I
stopped me in my tracks I've got goose
bumps it had an impact then that's I
can't say that about a lot of wards at
this time maybe it was because of the
process you have to go through and fill
it out all those questions the
interviews you know all of it all came
together to say and it was overpowering
it wasn't just one by the family it
wasn't just one by my team it wasn't the
customers have inspired us the leaders
in my world the jere burns at the bank
Eugene Wallace the other members of my
excel group are part of this award our
other children are a part of this award
though they're not here the community
keeps growing and growing and growing
and they all contributed to our
celebration of the
business how we how we function our
value system who we are all this
embracing this award that's pretty
special
you